Now as promised in the last lecture now we'll create our card component which will contain an arbitrary
list of elements.
So this might be links but also can be text inside the list like we have here.
Like who is the most active creator.
So let's go ahead and add this new component inside components FOLDER WE'LL CALL IT cards.
So let's create cart blade BHP and immediately let's create an alliance for our new component so this
would be components.
Cart and the layoffs would be cart OK.
So we have those cards inside the index blade BHP which can be found on the review's posts and you can
see that we have those big blocks of code that we display.
Basically it's the same code.
So we have free cards.
But the problem is that we display the items differently.
So for this particular one we display links.
And here we just display our text.
So let's see how we can achieve that.
So for simplicity let's copy a single card inside the card template and reformat it a little bit.
Now let's go ahead and create some slots.
So the first slot would be definitely the title.
That's the simple one.
Next we would like subtitle so mind that we are making those slots mandatory.
So they have to be provided.
Now for this third slot instead of most commented posts or whatever we can pass here will use another
slot called items.
So we'll iterate over a list of the items and then we'll display something inside the least but will
only echo and will only echo that item.
So this is our new card component.
Now let's implement it for the simple case which is our card with the names.
So we'll on a card this time it will have some additional arguments.
So we start with an array and and card.
So the title for this particular card component is most active
so let's do most active and subtitle
is users with most posts written.
Now if we would like to pass the items then well it might be a little bit complicated to pass those
items in this array.
Well basically it's not complicated to code but it it will be unreadable.
So how you can additionally pass the data for the slots is using the slot directive where you specify
the name of the slot.
This is items and then you can pass something some additional data.
Well so what can we do.
We have this most active and we want to pass an array of names of those users.
So it might seem a little bit complicated how we can do that but actually it would be very simple.
So what we will do is we'll create a collection using collect helper function.
This will create a new lot of our collection from the most active users and now we'll use our collection
method which I've shown you when we use lateral thinker pluck which will only pick one property from
this which is a name.
Now also you do not really have to pass those parameters here inside the array.
They can be also passed from within the component using slot so you can pass.
Subtitle
like that and instead of passing this subtitle Inside an array you can do it like that.
So this might be more readable.
That also depends of how long arguments you are trying to pass or how long are the is the data you are
trying to pass to your components.
So let's comment out this card so we can see if our component actually works properly so it should display
the same thing as we see here so after refreshing you see that we still have the most active users.
And the subtitle is users with most polls written
if will change it to writers we can see that this works perfectly.
So now we can safely remove this part.
Now you can see that it is becoming much clearer and since this is essentially the same thing most active
last month we can immediately copy this card paste it here
and just change the data that we pass through the slot.
So most active last month is the title here is the subtitle.
So let's pass it here so it is readable
and now these items would be most active.
Last month
Now let's remove this div element and what we ended up is basically our reused component so let's see
if that's still works after refreshing.
You can see this is basically exactly the same.
So now let's go to our most comments.
So this is quite a different example.
So let's first paste our card element or card component and this time we'll have to modify our component
a little bit.
So by default we think that items should be a collection so we iterate over it using for each.
And then we render the list items so we can also do it differently.
Now we will always display a list inside this component but we can add an if statement and we can check
what's the type of the items object using p p is a function.
So items or any other slot would always be a kind of larval object and we can verify if this is a collection.
So if it is Illuminate Support collection
then we'll iterate over all the elements.
But additionally when it is not we'll just render it as it is.
So whatever was passed through items will be just rendered.
So we are doing it for another case when this actually won't be a collection.
But actually it would be an HDMI L that you would like to render directly by doing something else than
just echoing items.
Now let's go back to our index.
So here we have the slope items
will up and slot here and modify our title to be most commented the soup title.
What people are currently talking about
and now we'll get this for each loop and we'll put that directly asked the items slot.
So what we will do here is since we are passing on HDMI because this will render an HDMI instead of
passing our collection object as we did here so we can already remove this code.
Now let's see if this will work.
So after refreshing you can see that we actually are.
Well this actually still works and what we did here is well if it is a collection of items then just
look through them and display them as our normal text but if you want something more customized like
in this case we just don't display our list element but we display a link and we need a post I.D. to
generate a root and a post title so it gets much more complicated.
This is how can you render it conditionally but still reuse the same simple card component.